<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

### Table of Contents

-   [Morphology][1]
    -   [setId][2]
        -   [Parameters][3]
    -   [getId][4]
    -   [buildFromRawMorphology][5]
        -   [Parameters][6]
    -   [getNumberOfSections][7]
    -   [getSection][8]
        -   [Parameters][9]
    -   [getArrayOfSections][10]
-   [Section][11]
    -   [Parameters][12]
    -   [setId][13]
        -   [Parameters][14]
    -   [getId][15]
    -   [setTypename][16]
        -   [Parameters][17]
    -   [getTypename][18]
    -   [setTypeValue][19]
        -   [Parameters][20]
    -   [getTypevalue][21]
    -   [addPoint][22]
        -   [Parameters][23]
    -   [getPoints][24]
    -   [getRadiuses][25]
    -   [initWithRawSection][26]
        -   [Parameters][27]
    -   [setParent][28]
        -   [Parameters][29]
    -   [getParent][30]
    -   [addChild][31]
        -   [Parameters][32]
    -   [hasChild][33]
        -   [Parameters][34]
-   [Soma][35]
    -   [setId][36]
        -   [Parameters][37]
    -   [getId][38]
    -   [addPoint][39]
        -   [Parameters][40]
    -   [getPoints][41]
    -   [setRadius][42]
        -   [Parameters][43]
    -   [getRadius][44]
    -   [getCenter][45]
    -   [initWithRawSection][46]
        -   [Parameters][47]

## Morphology

A morphology is the data representation of a neurone's anatomy. It is composed
of one soma (cell body) and sections. Sections can be axons, dendrites, etc.
A Morphology instance can be built from scratch (though it can be a bit tedious)
but will generally be built using a JSON description.

### setId

Set the ID of _this_ morphology

#### Parameters

-   `id` **([String][48] \| [Number][49])** the id

### getId

Get the ID of _this_ morphology

Returns **([String][48] \| [Number][49])** 

### buildFromRawMorphology

Build a morphology from a raw dataset, that usually comes from a JSON file.

#### Parameters

-   `rawMorphology`  

### getNumberOfSections

Retrieve the total number of section in this morphology

Returns **[Number][49]** 

### getSection

Get a section, given its id

#### Parameters

-   `id` **([String][48] \| [Number][49])** the id of a section

Returns **([Section][50] | null)** the requested section or null if the id is invalid

### getArrayOfSections

Get all the sections of _this_ morphology as an array, because sometimes it's
more convenient for iterating.

Returns **[Array][51]** array of Section instances

## Section

A section is a list of 3D points and some metadata. A section can have one parent
and multiple children when the dendrite or axone divide into mutliple dendrites
and axons.
A section instance can be built from scratch of it can be built using a raw object,
usually from a JSON description.

### Parameters

-   `morphology` **[Morphology][52]** the Morphology instance that host _this_ section (optional, default `null`)

### setId

Defines the id of this seciton.
Note: should probably not be used after `initWithRawSection` because then
sections already have ids and chance to messup the id game are pretty high.

#### Parameters

-   `id` **([String][48] \| [Number][49])** the id

### getId

Get the id of _this_ section

Returns **([String][48] \| [Number][49])** 

### setTypename

Define the typename, like in the SWC spec. Must be one of:

-   "undefined"
-   "soma" (even though this one should be used to build a Soma instance)
-   "axon"
-   "basal_dendrite"
-   "apical_dendrite"
-   "custom"
    Not that this method automaically sets the typevalue accordingly.
    For more info, go to [http://www.neuronland.org/NLMorphologyConverter/MorphologyFormats/SWC/Spec.html][53]

#### Parameters

-   `tn` **[String][48]** the typename

### getTypename

Get the typename as a String

Returns **[String][48]** 

### setTypeValue

Defnies the typevalue, which is the integer that goes in pair with the type name.
According to SWC spec. Must be one of:

-   0, for undefined
-   1, for soma (even though this one should be used to build a Soma instance)
-   2, for axon
-   3, for basal dendrite
-   4, for apical dendrite
-   5, for custom
    Note that defining the type value will automatically set the type name accordingly.

#### Parameters

-   `tv` **[Number][49]** the type value

### getTypevalue

Get the type value

Returns **[Number][49]** 

### addPoint

Add a point to _this_ current section

#### Parameters

-   `x` **[Number][49]** the x coordinate of the point to add
-   `y` **[Number][49]** the y coordinate of the point to add
-   `z` **[Number][49]** the z coordinate of the point to add
-   `r` **[Number][49]** the radius at the point to add. (default: 1) (optional, default `1`)

### getPoints

Get all the points of _this_ section as an array

Returns **[Array][51]** each element are of form [x: Number, y: Number, y: Number]

### getRadiuses

Get all the radiuses of the point in _this_ section

Returns **[Array][51]** 

### initWithRawSection

Build a section using a raw section object.

#### Parameters

-   `rawSection` **[Object][54]** usually comes from a JSON file

### setParent

Define the parent section of _this_ section, as an object reference.
The only verification perfomed by this method is that a section is not added
as its own parent.

#### Parameters

-   `section` **[Section][50]** the section that is the parent of this one

Returns **[Boolean][55]** true if parent was successfully defined, false if not.

### getParent

Get the parent section of _this_ section

Returns **[Section][50]** the parent

### addChild

Make a given section the child of _this_ one.
Two verifications are perfomed before: ids must be diferent so that we are
not allowing a section to be the child of itself, and that _this_ section
does not already have the given section as a children (=> avoid doublons)

#### Parameters

-   `section` **[Section][50]** The section to add as a child

Returns **[Boolean][55]** true if successfully added (of if already has the given child),
false if the candidate cannot be a child

### hasChild

Checks if a given section is already one of the children of _this_ section

#### Parameters

-   `section` **[Section][50]** a section to test

Returns **[Boolean][55]** true if the given section is already a child of _this_ section, false if not.

## Soma

The soma is the cell body of a neurone and thus is sort of a simplified version
of a Section, in term of datastructure.

### setId

Defines the id of this soma.
Note: should probably not be used after `initWithRawSection` because then
sections already have ids and chance to messup the id game are pretty high.

#### Parameters

-   `id` **([String][48] \| [Number][49])** the id

### getId

Get the id of _this_ soma

Returns **([String][48] \| [Number][49])** 

### addPoint

Add a point to the soma description

#### Parameters

-   `x` **[Number][49]** the x coordinate of the point to add
-   `y` **[Number][49]** the y coordinate of the point to add
-   `z` **[Number][49]** the z coordinate of the point to add

### getPoints

Get all the points of the soma

Returns **[Array][51]** each element of the array if of form [x: Number, y: Number, z: Number]

### setRadius

Define the radius of the soma

#### Parameters

-   `r` **[Number][49]** the radius

### getRadius

Get the radius of the soma.

Returns **[Number][49]** 

### getCenter

Return the center of the soma.
If the soma is made of a single point and a radius, this method returns the
single point. If the soma is made of several points, this method returns the
average.

Returns **([Array][51] | null)** coordinate of the center as [x: Number, y: Number, z: Number]

### initWithRawSection

Build a soma using a raw soma object.

#### Parameters

-   `rawSoma` **[Object][54]** usually comes from a JSON file

[1]: #morphology

[2]: #setid

[3]: #parameters

[4]: #getid

[5]: #buildfromrawmorphology

[6]: #parameters-1

[7]: #getnumberofsections

[8]: #getsection

[9]: #parameters-2

[10]: #getarrayofsections

[11]: #section

[12]: #parameters-3

[13]: #setid-1

[14]: #parameters-4

[15]: #getid-1

[16]: #settypename

[17]: #parameters-5

[18]: #gettypename

[19]: #settypevalue

[20]: #parameters-6

[21]: #gettypevalue

[22]: #addpoint

[23]: #parameters-7

[24]: #getpoints

[25]: #getradiuses

[26]: #initwithrawsection

[27]: #parameters-8

[28]: #setparent

[29]: #parameters-9

[30]: #getparent

[31]: #addchild

[32]: #parameters-10

[33]: #haschild

[34]: #parameters-11

[35]: #soma

[36]: #setid-2

[37]: #parameters-12

[38]: #getid-2

[39]: #addpoint-1

[40]: #parameters-13

[41]: #getpoints-1

[42]: #setradius

[43]: #parameters-14

[44]: #getradius

[45]: #getcenter

[46]: #initwithrawsection-1

[47]: #parameters-15

[48]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String

[49]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number

[50]: #section

[51]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array

[52]: #morphology

[53]: http://www.neuronland.org/NLMorphologyConverter/MorphologyFormats/SWC/Spec.html

[54]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object

[55]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Boolean
